Hi, Mystery Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain an American psychological
thriller film called "Sightless."
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care!
The film starts with a young girl who is depressed
and alone.
She then decides to jump off of her apartment
balcony.
The scene shifts to a month earlier, showing
that same young woman named Hellen..
Hellen used to be a famous violinist.
One night, she is brutally attacked in a car
park by an unknown attacker wearing a gas
mask, spraying chemicals on her eyes.
She is then immediately brought to a hospital
and wakes up on a hospital bed, with both
of her eyes covered in bandages.
Soon, a nurse named Omar comes to take the
bandages off.
As the bandages are taken off, she realizes
she can't see anything.
Shortly after, a doctor named Katsuro enters
her room.
He explains that the chemicals she was exposed
to.. left her optic nerve intact, but seared.
In simple terms, the damage is irreversible,
and she is now completely blind.
Having lost her eyesight forever, Ellen is
distraught and only reluctantly accepts her
altered situation.
Then, a detective named Bryce comes and asks
her questions about the incident.
She explains to Detective Bryce what she knows.
A few moments later, Ellen talks to her brother,
who is in Tokyo, on the phone.
He tells her..he has organized a hidden apartment
close to the city center for her to live in,
and a caretaker who specializes in helping
people like her who are 'adjusting to their
new lifestyle.'
The next day, Ellen wakes up in her new apartment
and meets her new caretaker, Clayton.
She has no memory of the trip home from the
hospital, which Clayton explains away by saying
that the drugs she is on are powerful.
Clayton tells her that he is a professional
caretaker, and he will assist Ellen in her
daily activities and slowly assist her transition
as a blind person.
He will come to her place every day at 11
am and leaves at 2 pm He adds that she is
now in her new apartment on the 9th floor
of the building, and he explains the layout
of the apartment to Ellen.
After Clayton leaves, Ellen tries to call
her friend, Sasha, and her brother.
But both of them do not pick up her calls.
She feels so empty as she has neither family
nor friends to talk to during this difficult
period.
The next day, Clayton brings Ellen a pet budgie
in a cage.
She asks him what color it is.
Clayton tells her it's baby blue.
Afterward, Ellen notices that when she stands
next to one of her windows, she can hear the
noise from the busy street below, but when
she stands near another window, she can't
hear anything.
Clayton explains that the glass there is thicker,
so she won't be able to hear anything.
They both then talk to each other about their
lives, slowly forming a close bond between them
Ellen then asks permission to touch Clayton's
face, to which he agrees.
That night, Ellen hears a woman crying while
being abused by someone; she initially believes
the woman is in her apartment, but it turns
out that the crying sound comes through the vent
The next day, she decides to invite her neighbor
for tea, so she walks out into the hallway
and leaves a post-it note on the door of the
apartment next door, asking the woman to join
her for tea.
That night, the woman named Lana knocks on
Ellen's door and comes in for tea.
She acts strange though, she knows Ellen used
to be a violinist and lost her sight.
She seems to know a lot about Ellen, even
though they just met.
Ellen touches her face, and to her surprise,
she feels a fresh scar on Lana's face.
Lanna reacts by warning her not to trust anyone.
And she runs out of the apartment.
Ellen becomes convinced that Lanna's husband
is being physically abusive to Lanna.
So Ellen reaches out to Detective Bryce, telling
him about the abuse her neighbor is getting
from her husband.
Detective Bryce sends over Officer Nieman
to talk to her neighbor and make sure everything
is alright.
Later, he confirms she is okay, and the scar
was just a birthmark.
The next morning, she notices a strange thing
about the place.
She explains to Clayton that a car alarm goes
off every other day at precisely 11 am (the
time Clayton arrives at her place daily).
The same car, same alarm, same time.
Clayton dismisses the oddities, and tells
Ellen that it is a big city; it's got lots
of alarms.
Later that night, Ellen thinks Lana comes
into the apartment again.
However, when she touches her shoulder,
it turns out to be Lana's abusive husband.
He threatens her to leave his wife alone and
stop being paranoid.
Feeling threatened, Ellen immediately asks
Clayton to come to her place.
Clayton arrives and comforts her.
At that time, Clayton tells her that he has
feelings towards her.
However, Ellen rejects the interest by stating
that she needs a caretaker more than a boyfriend
at the moment.
Broken-hearted, Clayton leaves the apartment.
Soon after Clayton leaves, she is attacked
again by the person in the gas mask.
Ellen manages to dial 911 before she passes
out as the attacker pushes a syringe onto her neck
Later, the paramedic tells her that there's
no apparent injury and not a needle mark on her neck
When Detective Bryce comes in, he tells her
that the CCTV also shows no one enters the
apartment after Clayton.
After hearing that, Ellen feels distressed;
she can no longer believe her own perceptions.
Feeling isolated from everyone in her life
and believing someone is after her, Ellen
decides to end her own life.
And that is when we jump back to the beginning...and
watch as she writes a suicide note, and then
climbs up onto the balcony railing...and jumps
off.
However, instead of dying, Ellen falls 6 feet
and is just fine.
She quickly discovers that she's in a soundproofed
room.
A room without a door.
A room with speakers that play the sounds
of the city.
A fictional city, and a fictional high-rise.
She quickly realizes the apartment she was
staying in was fake, and all of the noises
"outside" were coming from a speaker system.
She hears the 11 am car alarm go off and climbs
back into the "apartment."
After climbing back into her "apartment,"
she explores the hallway only to find she
cannot escape.
So, she heads out and knocks on Lana's door.
And Lana tells her that this is home…that
there is no leaving.
Clayton then arrives to cook Ellen's dinner.
When they sit down to eat dinner, Ellen hears
Clayton knock on the table twice.
Ellen recognizes this double-tap knock and
realizes that everybody else she's interacted
with since the attack has the same knocking.
That's when she realizes everyone she's met
since she woke up in the hospital - the nurse,
the doctor, the police detective, the paramedic,
Lana's husband - were all Clayton.
Realizing this truth, she pretends to drop
her drink, and hits him on the head with the
knife block.
She immediately takes his key and a taser,
and escapes down the hallway into the "apartment"
next door.
However, it is actually a weird empty storage
area... where Clayton keeps all his costumes
and everything else he needed to pull off
this ruse.
Clayton has been using various disguises to
play everyone.
Even more surprising, Ellen finds her assailant's
"outfit," which reveals that Clayton was the
one who attacked Ellen to make her blind,
and took her directly to this fake apartment
to keep her captive.
She then finds Lanna, who is actually real,
in a hidden room.
This room is the fake hospital room she was
brought to at the beginning of the film.
She reveals she is Clayton's sister, and she
helped him kidnap Ellen.
She then tells Ellen their only hope of escape
is by using the hidden vent in Clayton's room.
As Ellen is trying to escape, Clayton catches
up to her, knocks her out, and drags her into
his room.
It's the room that Lana had previously mentioned
contains the only way out through a vent in
the wall.
Ellen feels the air from the vent and realizes
that she has yet another chance to escape.
Clayton launches into a monologue explaining
his actions.
When he was a kid, his father had locked him
and his sister, Lana, up in the basement,
holding them captive for three years after
their mother had died.
The only way Clayton had survived was by making
up characters in his head, giving them backstories,
and pretending to be them.
But what had truly saved him was the music
that Lana played for them in the attic.
The music he heard was Ellen's, who was a
child prodigy violin player.
He refers to her as his light in the dark.
So now, he wanted to be the same for her.
As he relays his story and motives, Ellen
grabs a chance to decapacitate him with the
taser and opens the vent; but discovers that
it's too small for her to crawl through.
Taped inside the vent, Ellen finds a small
vial of the same substance that had blinded
her.
When Clayton comes around again, she sprays
the substance in his eyes, effectively blinding
him too.
As Clayton writhes in pain, Lana arrives on
the scene.
Upon seeing Clayton disabled, she frees Ellen,
sending her out into the real world.
Six months later, Ellen prepares to go on
stage to the sound of an elated crowd.
And that's how the movie ends.
Now, for the explanation.
When watching this movie, we may notice that
Ellen is in every single scene from the very
beginning to the very end.
The reason for this...is that this entire
film is told from Ellen's perspective.
Everything we see in this film is what Ellen
assumes is there; we see what ellen thinks
she would be seeing.
The only things we can trust as viewers.....is
what ellen hears ,and when ellen touches.
This is best signified by the bird at the
beginning, which changes from green to blue
as Clayton describes to Ellen that the bird
is blue.
If Ellen thinks the bird is blue, we see the
bird as blue.
This is why when anyone shows up in front
of Ellen, we always see the person that Ellen
assumes the person is.
But once the person speaks or once Ellen touches
them, we realize who they actually are....because
Ellen is realizing who they actually are,
and this perspective is used throughout the
entire film.
As we also see in the movie, Ellen has been
trying to contact her best friend, but she
hasn't been picking up or returning her calls.
This is because...Clayton has disconnected
her from the outside world.
Ellen's friends and family had no idea she
was missing.
No one had any clue where she was or what
she was going through.
As the movie comes to a close, Clayton explains
to Ellen...he wants to be "the light in the
darkness" for Ellen.
Here, we can assume... he blinded Ellen in
hopes that she would be so helpless that she
would need him.
In this way, his character resembles someone
with Munchausen by proxy, which is a mental
health problem in which a caregiver makes
up or causes an illness or injury in a person
under his care.
Clayton also explained to Ellen, he would
also create various personalities…while
in the attic to have his own
imaginary friends.
He uses the talent he learned in the attic of playing multiple
characters.....to fool Ellen into believing
she is interacting with multiple characters.
. He even imitates the voice of Ellen's brother.
In the end, the movie cuts to six months later,
with Ellen back playing the violin on stage
again.
However, it isn’t entirely clear if she
has her sight or not; it could be that Clayton
wasn't lying when he was pretending to be
the doctor.....who told her it was "irreversible."
However, since he was even lying about the
color of the bird in her apartment, we might
not even be able to trust him about this ;and
it’s very possible she was only temporarily
blind
That’s my explanation for the movie “Sightless”.
Subscribe for more videos like this, turn
on notifications, and leave a like to help
the channel out.
Thank you for watching.